hi I'm Seema welcome to the eiephant
haba today we are going to do the
calleda akali dal verily the most
popularly known as dal makhni so stay
tuned keep watching okay so the
ingredients required for making kadhi
Dallas you required 1 cup of paladar and
quarter cup of rajma this doll should be
pre soaked for about 2 to 3 hours
because in the cooking time becomes less
these are two large onions chopped 3
tablespoons of coriander leaves
4 large Tomatoes purity 3 tablespoons of
cream 3 tablespoons of garlic ginger
paste 2 to 3 green chillies slit 2
tablespoons of key 1 tbsp butter 1 and
1/2 teaspoon of salt 1 and 1/4 TSP of
chili powder 1 and 1/4 teaspoon of jeera
powder 1 and 1/4 teaspoon of Tanya
powder and 1 tablespoon of kasoori methi
first we have to pressure cook the dal
so here I add in the soap star
yeah I didn't some sort
so now we just add in the water so
basically you will be needing about
three glasses of water or three cups of
water and then you've shut the lid and
leave the doll for cooking so we will
give it two wizards and after two
whistles we will put it on slow flame
for about fifteen to twenty minutes so
that we get a nice consistency
okay while the doll is cooking I will
just shift it to another burner and in
the meanwhile you can go to the dark of
the dark so to start with here goes in
the key
waiting for the key to get nicely heated
then go in the chopped onions and we
have to bring these onions to a nice
brown color not dark brown but feel
brown stirring it well to get it to a
nice pale brown color
now we've almost had three verses for
the doll so we put it on slow flame for
15-20 minutes and here I continue with
the tadka the onions have turned to a
nice pale brown color so now we are in
the ginger-garlic paste
right a little
for about two seconds
because the garlic ginger paste anyway
cook in the tomatoes and then go in the
tomatoes the puri tomatoes
this makes the whole thing nicely
adding salt
and the red chili powder
and let it go cut slowly
so here we have the Turki which is ready
now the Turki is very important because
the entire flavor of non lies in a
quarter cup and secondly you can see
that the tomatoes have been cooked and
reduced in quantity karada has left the
sides of the pan which is an indication
that the targa is
in our screen 20 minutes so we'll just
open the see how well the doll
has been done
yes the doll has been done now I shall
transfer the targa into the cooker the
water is less but one does not have to
get worked up you can always be flexible
of adding water to the consistency that
you want so now it's time for us to
transfer the tadka into the tie
now we're at with the Turki and we had a
quick stir the color is looking very
nice but yet I would add some more water
because we are going to give it one more
missile because then the doll will blend
even better
now I will shut the book up light the
gas
so here now we shall open the cooker and
see we had one missile and yes the doll
is ready it's nice and blended and now
we will just add the remaining
ingredients so here goes in the jeera
powder then we add in the Tanya powder
in the Kasuri methi she leaves for
garnish a coriander leaves
this give it a nice good mix
but uh
and lastly fresh cream now we are done
with a doll and it's ready looking
absolutely yummy
only thing is just leave it on gas for
another few minutes yep another five
minutes on slow gas and then you can
shut it so here's the callee doll
ordinarily doll which is ready famously
known as dal makhni best eaten with
parathas and Romilly roti if you like
this recipe subscribe to India Food
Network
if you want you to do anything special
in Punjabi cuisine write it thank you